WCF breaking change (#34914)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/wcf-client/6.0/duplex-synchronization-context.md

---

> title: "Breaking change: Duplex contract captures synchronization context"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Breaking change: DuplexChannelFactory captures synchronization context"
```

> description: Learn about the breaking change in WCF Client 6.0 where the duplex contract now captures synchronization context when it's opened.

Reviewer: description: Learn about the breaking change in WCF Client 6.0 where the DuplexChannelFactory now captures the synchronization context when it's opened.

ms.date: 04/06/2023
---
# Duplex contract captures synchronization context

> The duplex contract now captures the synchronization context when it's opened and dispatches callbacks to the captured context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DuplexChannelFactory now captures the synchronization context when it's opened and dispatches callbacks to the captured context.
```

## Previous behavior

> In previous versions, the duplex contract failed to capture synchronization context when the channel factory was opened.

Reviewer: In previous versions, DuplexChannelFactory failed to capture the current synchronization context when the channel factory was opened.

## New behavior

> Starting in WCF Client 6.0 RC, the duplex channel captures synchronization context and dispatches callbacks to the captured context. This behavior matches that of .NEt Framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in WCF Client 6.0 RC, DuplexChannelFactory captures the current synchronization context when opened and dispatches callbacks to the captured context. This behavior matches that of .NET Framework.
```

## Version introduced

WCF Client 6.0 RC

## Type of breaking change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

> This change was made to [fix a bug](https://github.com/dotnet/wcf/issues/4946) where the client hung when making an asynchronous call followed by a synchronous call. The new behavior matches .NET Framework functionality.

Reviewer: That wasn't the bug for this change. It was an internal find which was reported directly to me. An issue was never opened for it. The internal problem was a callback was instantiating a STA COM object and as the initial callback and subsequent callbacks weren't being dispatched to a custom SynchronizationContext, the callbacks were happening on the wrong thread.

> This change was made to [fix a bug](https://github.com/dotnet/wcf/issues/4946) where the client hung when making an asynchronous call followed by a synchronous call. The new behavior matches .NET Framework functionality.

Author: ```suggestion
This change was made to fix a bug where callbacks were happening on the wrong thread. The new behavior matches .NET Framework functionality.
```

## Recommended action

> If the new behavior is undesirable, you can revert to version 4.x behavior by applying the <xref:System.ServiceModel.CallbackBehaviorAttribute> to your contract with the <xref:System.ServiceModel.CallbackBehaviorAttribute.UseSynchronizationContext> property set to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the new behavior is undesirable, you can revert to version 4.x behavior by applying the <xref:System.ServiceModel.CallbackBehaviorAttribute> to your callback contract with the <xref:System.ServiceModel.CallbackBehaviorAttribute.UseSynchronizationContext> property set to `false`.
```
